AIU MUSIC BLENDER - DSPARCD PHASE 6 - COMPLETION - VERSION 1

Date: 2026-08-07


WHAT COMPLETE MEANS FOR VERSION 1

Version 1 is complete when: the seven acceptance scenarios (T1 through T7) pass; both tutorials describe the system as it exists; the README presents the project in the family style; and the whole repository is committed and pushed to GitHub.


TESTING

• Unit and integration tests live in tests/ and run with: python3 -m pytest tests/ (or python3 -m unittest discover tests).

• Tests generate their own synthetic audio (click tracks and tones), so the suite needs no copyrighted material and no network.

• The classic-mode tests are the permanent Golden Rule regression.


DOCUMENTATION

• The DSPARCD Fileset (these seven documents) is the design record.

• docs/User_Tutorial_v1.txt teaches usage of all three faces.

• docs/Developer_Tutorial_v1.txt teaches the internals, module by module.

• README.md is the public face, with attribution to the vendored EternalJukebox ancestor.


DEPLOYMENT NOTE (there is no deployment - the Second Commandment)

Install once, on the user's machine:

  1. Install the system programs: sudo apt install ffmpeg rubberband-cli yt-dlp python3-gi gir1.2-gtk-3.0

  2. Install the Python libraries: pip3 install --user --break-system-packages librosa soundfile flask numpy

  3. Optional, for stem mash-ups: pip3 install --user --break-system-packages demucs

  4. Run: bin/ai-music-blender --help


MONITORING

There is nothing to monitor; there is no server but the localhost one the user starts and stops.

The analysis cache at ~/.cache/ai_music_blender can be deleted at any time and rebuilds itself.


SIGN-OFF

Built and tested on ccai2 (Ubuntu Studio 24.04) on 2026-08-07.

Owner review of the CONSTITUTION and the Fileset is pending, per the owner's note that CONSTITUTION.md will be reviewed and edited later.


COMPLETION REFLECTION

The riskiest part of completion was the temptation to call the system done when the engine worked but the faces were thin; the tutorials forced honesty, because a tutorial cannot be written for a face that does not actually work.


END OF COMPLETION VERSION 1
