AIU MUSIC BLENDER - USER TUTORIAL - VERSION 2

For the beginner, learner, layperson, newcomer, and novice.


WHAT THIS PROGRAM IS

AIU Music Blender takes a song and plays it FOREVER.

It listens to the song on your own computer, finds the beats (the steady pulse), finds beats that sound alike, and then plays the song while occasionally jumping between look-alike beats - so the song flows on and on and never ends.

It can also take TWO songs and blend them into a mash-up (one song's singing over the other song's band), and that mash-up can play forever too.

Everything happens on your own computer.

No account, no internet service, no company that can shut it down.


WHAT YOU NEED (one-time setup, on Ubuntu)

Open a terminal (the black window where you type commands) and run:

  sudo apt install ffmpeg rubberband-cli python3-gi gir1.2-gtk-3.0

  pip3 install --user --break-system-packages -U yt-dlp

(yt-dlp comes from pip3, not apt, because YouTube changes often and the Ubuntu-packaged version goes stale; the pip3 version stays current.)

  pip3 install --user --break-system-packages librosa soundfile flask numpy

"pip3" is the installer for Python add-ons; "sudo apt install" is Ubuntu's installer for system programs.

Optional, for the fancier stem mash-ups (splitting a song into voice and instruments):

  pip3 install --user --break-system-packages demucs


THE THREE WAYS TO RUN IT

WAY 1: THE COMMAND LINE

All commands start with bin/aiu-music-blender (run from the project folder).

• See everything it can do:

  bin/aiu-music-blender --help

• Look inside a song (tempo, key, beats, and how many jump points were found):

  bin/aiu-music-blender analyze MySong.mp3

• Play a song forever (press Ctrl and C together to stop):

  bin/aiu-music-blender jukebox MySong.mp3

• Save two minutes of the forever-version as a file instead of playing it:

  bin/aiu-music-blender jukebox MySong.mp3 --render forever.wav --length 120

• Make the walk wilder or calmer with the chaos setting (0.0 is calm, 1.0 is wild):

  bin/aiu-music-blender jukebox MySong.mp3 --chaos 0.5

• Get the exact same forever-walk every time by giving a seed number (share the number with a friend and they hear your walk):

  bin/aiu-music-blender jukebox MySong.mp3 --seed 42

• Use a YouTube link instead of a file (it downloads the audio to your computer first):

  bin/aiu-music-blender jukebox "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=..."

• Blend two songs into a mash-up:

  bin/aiu-music-blender mashup SongA.mp3 SongB.mp3 -o blend.wav

• The crown jewel - make the mash-up play forever:

  bin/aiu-music-blender jukebox blend.wav

WAY 2: THE WEB PAGE

• Start the local web server:

  bin/aiu-music-blender web

• Open your browser to:

  http://localhost:8765

"localhost" means your own computer; nothing is on the internet.

• Pick a song, watch the famous circle-and-arcs picture appear (each arc is a possible jump), press play, and watch the jumps light up as you listen.

WAY 3: THE UBUNTU APP

• Start the app:

  bin/aiu-music-blender gui

• A normal desktop window opens: choose a song for forever-play, or choose two songs for a mash-up, set the chaos slider, and press the buttons.


QUESTIONS A NEWCOMER ASKS

• Where do downloaded and analyzed files go?

Analyses are remembered in ~/.cache/aiu_music_blender so a song is only studied once; it is always safe to delete that folder.

• Is this legal?

It runs on your own files and your own local downloads, renders on your own machine, and shares nothing; keep it that way.

• Why did my two songs blend badly?

Some songs fight each other (very different speeds or clashing keys); the mashup command prints a compatibility report so you can see why, and choosing songs with closer tempos usually helps.


END OF USER TUTORIAL VERSION 2
